Gandhi Ghat
Gandhi Ghat is one of the most popular ghats on the banks of the river Ganges in the city of Patna in Bihar. It is popular as the ashes of Mahatma Gandhi were immersed here. The highlight of the place is however, the magnanimous Ganga Aarti that is attended by thousands of devotees as well as tourists. The aarti is performed at dusk, with 51 lamps by a group of priests who are dressed in saffron robes. This activity was started in 2011 and was inspired by the ones that are performed in Varanasi and Haridwar.

There is also another activity that the ghat is famous for- the River cruise ship which has a restaurant on board. This particular activity draws a lot of tourists to come and feast at the ‘floating restaurant’ amidst warm blue waters of the Ganges. In addition to that, the kite festival is also a big event here and is celebrated with a lot of pomp and show on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, every year. Besides, you can also enjoy boating here at the ghat. 

Srikrishna Science Centre
3.2
Built in 1978, Srikrishna Science Centre showcases a collection of wonderful exhibits to demonstrate various principles of science. It is very popular especially among the kids and offers a good educational tour.

Patna Museum
3.7
Situated in the city of Patna in Bihar, the Patna Museum, locally known as the Jadu Ghar is a very popular museum that houses more than 50,000 rare art objects. These include Indian artefacts from the ancient, middle ages and the British colonial era. It was built in 1917 and was started on 3 April of the same year during the British rule to house the historical artefacts founded in Patna. The rich collection of the museum will take you back to the past to reminisce Indian history and glory.

Constructed in the style of Mughal and Rajput architecture, the museum has different galleries that contain masterpieces from the past. The Holy Relic Casket, with the sacred ashes of Lord Buddha and the beautiful statue, Yakshani, are the most highlighted attractions of the place. Archaeological objects such as coins, art objects, paintings, instruments, textiles, thankas, bronze sculptures and terracotta images by various Hindu and Buddhist artists are on display in the museum. Another one of the museum's prized possessions is a rare collection of British-period paintings depicting day-to-day life of the Indians of the era, along with a fine collection related to the first President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad, and a First World War cannon.

Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Library
3.2
Established in 1891, this place has a very wide collection of Mughal and Islamic scriptures including a 25 mm wide version of Quran. It also has the Nadir Shah's sword which he raised at the Sunehri Mosque in Delhi, to order the massacre of residents of the city.

This library contains close to 250,000 books and is located on the Ashok Raj Path.

Mahavir Mandir
3.7
Mahavir Mandir in Patna is the second largest religious shrine in North India. It is one of the leading temples dedicated to the worship of Lord Hanuman. Thousands of devotees from different parts of the country flock in here daily to offer prayer to and seek the blessings of the God. It is believed that Sankat Mochan Hanuman listens to the prayers of his faithful devotees hence if worshipped with a pure heart no wishes of yours would be left unfulfilled. Therefore,  it is also known as "Manokamna Temple."

Mahavir Mandir is located right outside the Patna Railway Station, standing tall as if to bless tourists. It is not a building in isolation but contains other facilities like shops, office and palmistry centre for its visitors in its complex. It is managed by the Mahavir Temple Trust of Patna. After the Vaishno Devi, this temple has the highest earnings of over 1 lakh per day rendering its trust budgets as the second highest in the northern part of the country. The temple attracts huge crowds on festivals like Ramnavami. Make sure you taste the famous delicacy "Naivedyam", the temple's prasadam prepared by Tirupati experts.

ISKCON Temple Patna

ISKCON Temple in Patna is a new addition to the group, and is yet to be fully open to the devotees and visitors. However, upon completion, the complex will be the largest in Bihar-Jharkhand area. The trademark white and red shades grace the exterior, while inside there are idols of Sri Gaur Nitai, Sri Radha Banke Bihari and Sri Ram Durbar.

Maurya Lok
3.2
One of the largest shopping complexes in Patna, Maurya Lok would ideally cater to most of your shopping needs.

Gandhi Maidan
3.7
The Gandhi Maidan Park, located in the capital city of Patna on the banks of the river Ganges, is a famous historical venue spanning an area of about 60 acres. This park was frequented by several influential leaders of the Indian Independence Movement for launching political campaigns, freedom rallies, parades and holding religious ceremonies. Formerly known as Patna Lawns, the grounds house the tallest statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the world, a bronze figurine that rises to over 70 feet. Its popularity has affirmed its status as a prominent landmark and place of the attraction of the city. Located near Ashok Rajpath in Moradpur, these grounds are approximately 2-3 kilometres from the city centre. During its heyday, distinguished state patriarchs namely Mahatma Gandhi, Maulana Azad, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Patel, Rajendra Prasad, Indira Gandhi and many more made their powerful voices heard in these lawns.

Even today, it acts as a hub for political rallies and other major events. The 72-feet tall bronze statue of Mahatma Gandhi lies in the south-western corner of the ground. It also has one of the eleven Gandhi Sangrahalayas (Gandhi Museums) in the north-western corner. Several exhibitions and fairs are also held here, the most famous of them being the fortnight-long Book Fair. The ground has Patna's buzzing roads running around its circumference. A spot of choice for morning and evening joggers, it is best visited during these times. City dwellers head here for some necessary relaxation. It is open for playing and cricket played here is a delight to watch.

Bihar Emporium, Maurya Lok Shopping Complex
3.0
Bihar Emporium, run by the state government, is a good place to buy genuine Madhubani paintings at the right price.
